[Writer] Add Privy signer migration guides (React + JWT auth) (#1230)
alchemyplatform/docs: content/wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/signer-migration-overview.mdx

---
title: "Migrate your signer from Alchemy to Privy"
description: "Overview of migrating the signer for your app and users' embedded wallets from Alchemy's Account Kit to Privy, while keeping Alchemy's transaction infrastructure."
slug: wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/signer-migration-overview
---

This page is the landing guide for moving the **signer** (auth + key custody) for your app from Alchemy's Account Kit to Privy, while continuing to use Alchemy's transaction infrastructure and gas sponsorship. Start here to understand what changes for you and your users, then drop into the sub-guide that matches your auth setup.

<Info>
Pick the detailed guide that matches your app:
* **[React migration](/wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/react-migration)** — React apps using standard auth methods (email, Google, passkeys, etc.)
* **[JWT auth migration](/wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/jwt-auth-migration)** — Apps authenticating users with JWT (JSON Web Token)
</Info>

## What migration looks like

> ### For developers

Reviewer: Default the overview to explain the react package path (don't note JWT in each step). JWT auth should be a special/edge case.

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. First prereq is now "Confirm your migration path" with a checklist (7702 vs 4337, MAv2 vs other, React vs JWT guide) pointing to the Edge cases section below so devs self-identify their path before starting.

* **User records** — For standard auth, export users from the Alchemy Dashboard and import the JSON into the Privy Dashboard so Privy knows which users need wallet migration. For JWT-only apps, no user export/import is needed — both providers verify the same JWT.
* **Transactions and gas sponsorship** — Stay on Alchemy. You rewire Privy wallets to Alchemy's transaction infrastructure via `@alchemy/wallet-apis` and keep the same Gas Manager policy.

### For end users

Users keep their wallets. The only visible change is the login screen switching from Alchemy to Privy.

* **Wallet addresses are preserved.** Assets, history, and NFTs stay at the same address.
* **No seed phrases, no manual steps.** The migration SDK (React) or your JWT handoff runs invisibly on the user's first login after the switch.
* **Users sign in once with their original method** (email OTP, Google, passkey, etc.) to authorize the key transfer, then continue as usual.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Part of the prereqs should be users confirming which type of migration they need and which edge cases apply - e.g. confirm using 7702 or 4337, confirm correct account type, find migration guide.

Author: Done in 6f9cb801. Added a third bullet in Step 2 alongside the 7702/4337 bullets: if the app uses a smart account other than MAv2 (Light Account, MAv1, Simple Account, custom), stop here and stay on the lower-level SDK. Links to the overview's account-type edge case and the choosing-a-smart-account reference.

**If your existing app uses 7702 delegation to MAv2:** nothing special is needed. Connect the Privy signer to the Wallet APIs as shown in the sub-guides and the Privy signer integration guide.

**If your existing app uses pure ERC-4337:** you must override the default when connecting the Privy signer to the Wallet APIs, otherwise `sendCalls` will treat the Privy EOA as the account and transactions will target the wrong address. See [How to use non-7702 mode](/wallets/transactions/using-eip-7702#how-to-use-non-7702-mode) for the full flow. At a minimum you need to:

1. **Call `requestAccount` before `prepareCalls` / `sendCalls`.** Pass `creationHint: { accountType: "sma-b" }` to create (or look up) the dedicated smart contract account for your signer. If you previously used this owner in 7702 mode, the `creationHint` is required so a separate smart wallet is created for that owner.
2. **Pass the returned account address as `account` on `sendCalls`** (or as `from` on the `wallet_prepareCalls` JSON-RPC request). If you skip this, the Wallet APIs fall back to 7702 mode against the signer address.

> 3. **Cache and reuse the returned address.** The smart contract account address is stable for a given signer — you don't need to call `requestAccount` before every transaction. Storing it alongside your user record keeps the first-send latency low.

Reviewer: Remove step 3 and 4 here - keep it lightweight.

Author: Done in 6f9cb801. Added a `<Note>` directly under the existing Info callout pointing to the signer migration overview so devs confirm account type (MAv2) and connection type (7702 vs 4337) before starting.

4. **Make sure your signer can sign on behalf of the smart contract account.** Privy's embedded wallet (via `toViemAccount`) works as an owner signer out of the box, so no extra wiring is required beyond the three points above.

### Account type — non-MAv2 users

> Wallet APIs only support Modular Account v2 (as the 7702 delegation target and as the `sma-b` smart contract account). If your current app uses a different smart account implementation, you can't drop onto Wallet APIs as-is — you need to stay on the lower-level SDK for those users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wallet APIs only support Modular Account v2. If your current app already uses a different smart account implementation, you need to stay on the lower-level SDK for those users.
```

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. The old 5-step detailed Steps block was stripped down to a short 2-step summary pointing devs to the sub-guides for the actual code — nothing in the overview is copy-pasteable anymore.

This applies if your existing integration uses any of:

* Light Account
* Light Account v2 / MultiOwnerLightAccount
* Modular Account v1
* Simple Account
* A custom smart account implementation

**Migration path for these apps:**

1. **Keep the signer migration itself the same** — swap Alchemy's signer for Privy and pull the Privy embedded wallet out as a viem `LocalAccount` via `toViemAccount`.
2. **Do not move sending to `@alchemy/wallet-apis`** for users whose existing accounts aren't MAv2. Instead, continue using `@account-kit/smart-contracts` with the client that matches your account type — for example, [`createLightAccountAlchemyClient`](/wallets/smart-contracts/other-accounts/light-account/getting-started) for Light Account or [`createModularAccountV2Client`](/wallets/smart-contracts/modular-account-v2/overview) for MAv2. Pass the Privy-backed `LocalAccount` as the `signer`.
3. **New users can start on MAv2.** If you want new sign-ups to land on MAv2 + Wallet APIs, branch in your app so only legacy users hit the account-kit client path, and everyone else goes through `@alchemy/wallet-apis`.

> See [Choosing a smart account](/wallets/smart-contracts/choosing-a-smart-account) for the account implementations available in the lower-level SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. Session keys section is now a single sentence + link to the [legacy session keys reference](https://www.alchemy.com/docs/wallets/reference/wallet-apis-session-keys/legacy-session-keys). Dropped the requirements list.

> ### Session keys

Reviewer: Keep this section short - dont list requirements. Just link to the guide for using legacy session keys

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. The trailing "See [Choosing a smart account]…" line was removed as part of the non-MAv2 section simplification.

Legacy session keys are supported on Wallet APIs / v5. If your users have session keys that were installed onchain through the v4 `@account-kit/wallet-client` integration (via `installValidation`), you can continue to use them without reinstalling — you build a permissions context hex string and pass it in `capabilities.permissions.context` on `sendCalls`.

Requirements:

* The smart wallet must be Modular Account v2 (`sma-b`) or an EIP-7702 account delegated to MAv2.
* The session key must already be installed onchain with a known `entityId`.
* You must know whether the key was installed as a **global** validation or scoped to specific selectors.

See the [Use existing session keys](/wallets/reference/wallet-apis-session-keys/legacy-session-keys) reference for the full guide.

> ## What to expect — end-to-end flow

Reviewer: Move the what to expect above the edge cases and above prereqs

Reviewer: Consolidate this with the earlier for developers flow to keep it short

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. Consolidated What-to-expect with the former "For developers" overview into a single short block so the page doesn't repeat itself.

Author: Done in 6f9cb801. Added the same `<Note>` directly under the Info callout on the JWT guide, mirroring the React guide's wording and pointing to the overview's Edge cases section.

> At a high level, every migration follows the same shape. The sub-guides fill in each step.

Reviewer: keep this overview simple so developers don't try to implement things listed

Author: Done in 33ef77f8. Non-MAv2 edge case now reads exactly: "Wallet APIs only support Modular Account v2. If your current app already uses a different smart account implementation, you need to stay on the lower-level SDK for those users." Dropped the long migration-path bullet list.

At a high level, the React migration is two steps:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Swap the auth SDK and reconnect sending">
    Replace `@account-kit/react` with `@privy-io/react-auth`, then wire Privy wallets back to Alchemy's transaction infrastructure with `@alchemy/wallet-apis` (same Gas Manager policy, same chains).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Migrate existing users' keys">
    Drop in `@privy-io/alchemy-migration` and wrap your app with `MigrationProvider`. The SDK detects users with Alchemy wallets on login and transfers their keys to Privy via end-to-end encryption.
  </Step>
</Steps>

For the full, runnable walkthrough — including user export/import and cleanup — follow the [React migration guide](/wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/react-migration). If you authenticate users with JWT, follow the [JWT auth migration guide](/wallets/wallet-integrations/privy/jwt-auth-migration) instead.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, confirm your setup and have the following ready:

* **Confirm your migration path.** Review the [Edge cases](#edge-cases) below to self-identify which guide applies:
  * Confirm you're using **EIP-7702 or ERC-4337** (the default is 7702; 4337 needs an extra step).

>   * Confirm your **account type** is Modular Account v2 (MAv2). Non-MAv2 accounts stay on the lower-level SDK.

Reviewer 2: why are we saying non-MAv2 stays on sdk v4? wallet apis support LA & MAv1 as well, behind a feature flag.

Reviewer 2: pushing change

  * Pick the **migration guide** that matches — React by default, JWT if you authenticate with JSON Web Tokens.
* **Alchemy API key** — From the [Alchemy Dashboard](https://dashboard.alchemy.com/). Use the same app that has your Smart Wallets configuration and Gas Manager policy linked.
* **Gas Manager policy ID** — From the [Gas Manager dashboard](https://dashboard.alchemy.com/services/gas-manager/configuration). Must be linked to the app above.
* **Privy account and app** — Create an app in the [Privy Dashboard](https://dashboard.privy.io/). Enable the same auth methods your Alchemy users originally signed up with.

## Edge cases

> Most apps follow the default path: 7702 delegation to Modular Account v2 (MAv2) with the Wallet APIs. If that's you, the sub-guides cover everything you need. The three cases below change the migration path and are worth reviewing before you start.

Reviewer 2: i'm a bit worried that existing SDK v4 users may be confused by all this talk of 7702 being the default, since that is NOT the case in sdk v4 when using the react pkg.

Reviewer 2: pushing change

### EIP-7702 vs. ERC-4337

The `@alchemy/wallet-apis` client defaults to **EIP-7702 delegation to Modular Account v2**. This is the default for Wallets v5 and Wallet APIs, and it's what the [Privy signer integration guide](/wallets/third-party/signers/privy) assumes.

* **EIP-7702 delegation (default).** The signer (EOA) *is* the account. Assets live at the signer address, and the EOA is delegated to MAv2.
* **Pure ERC-4337.** The signer is the *owner* of a separate smart contract account. Assets live at the smart contract account address, not at the signer.

If your existing app uses pure ERC-4337, you must override the default when connecting the Privy signer to the Wallet APIs. See [How to use non-7702 mode](/wallets/transactions/using-eip-7702#how-to-use-non-7702-mode) for the full flow.

### Account type — non-MAv2 users

> Wallet APIs only support Modular Account v2. If your current app already uses a different smart account implementation, you need to stay on the lower-level SDK for those users.

Reviewer 2: same here re: other acct types

Reviewer 2: pushing change
